---

copyright:
  years: 2020
lastupdated: "2020-08-31"

keywords: data encryption in {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}}, data storage for {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}}, personal data in {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}}, data deletion for {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}}, data in {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}}, data security in {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}}

subcollection: security-compliance

---

{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:screen: .screen}
{:download: .download}
{:external: target="_blank" .external}
{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:faq: data-hd-content-type='faq'}
{:gif: data-image-type='gif'}
{:term: .term}
{:important: .important}
{:note: .note}
{:pre: .pre}
{:tip: .tip}
{:preview: .preview}
{:deprecated: .deprecated}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:support: data-reuse='support'}
{:script: data-hd-video='script'}
{:table: .aria-labeledby="caption"}
{:troubleshoot: data-hd-content-type='troubleshoot'}
{:help: data-hd-content-type='help'}
{:tsCauses: .tsCauses}
{:tsResolve: .tsResolve}
{:tsSymptoms: .tsSymptoms}
{:beta: .beta}



# Storing and encrypting data in {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}}
{: #data-storage} 

To ensure that your data is securely managed when you use the {{site.data.keyword.compliance_full}}, it is important to know exactly what data is stored and encrypted. The {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}} stores your data in a highly available and secure environment.

For more information about how {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} platform secures your data, see [How do I know that my data is safe?](/docs/overview?topic=overview-security)
{: tip}



## Storing and encrypting credentials
{: #credential-security}

When you work with the {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}}, you provide credentials that allow a collector to access and scan your IT resources. The credentials that you provide might be an API key or a username and password. The {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}} securely stores your credentials and prevents anyone from accessing them - including IBM.

All collector-to-service communication is performed over a TLS 1.2+ protected channel. In addition to that, each request is cryptographically signed by the collectors private key and the signature is validated by the service by using the collectors public key. At no time are your credentials available in clear text while stored or used by the service.



## Storing and encrypting results
{: #results-security}

Depending on the component of the {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}} that you're working with, the results are stored and encrypted differently. 

### Security and compliance posture monitoring
{: #posture-results-security}

The configuration information and metadata that is gathered by the service for security and compliance posture monitoring:

* Does contain personally identifiable information.
* Is sent over a TLS 1.2+ protected channel by using IBM Cloud Internet Services (powered by CloudFlare). By using Cloud Internet Services there is DDOS protection, a Web Application Firewall, and other network level security mechanisms in place. 
* Is cryptographically signed by the collector's private key.
* Is validated by the service with the collector's public key.
* Is stored by the service for 30 days (configuration data) or 31 days (analytics data) in an encrypted database that is provided by the IBM Cloud Database Service.



### Configuration governance
{: #config-results-security}

The configuration information and metadata that is generated by the {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}}:
* Does not contain any personally identifiable information.
* Is sent over a TLS 1.2+ protected channel by using IBM Cloud Internet Services (powered by CloudFlare). By using Cloud Internet Services there is DDOS protection, a Web Application Firewall, and other network level security mechanisms in place.
* Is encrypted while at rest and in transit to a provider-managed Cloudant database.
* Is securely replicated in US-South and US-East regions.

The evaluation results that are generated by the {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}}:
* Do not contain any personally identifiable information.
* Is sent over a TLS 1.2+ protected channel by using IBM Cloud Internet Services (powered by CloudFlare). By using Cloud Internet Services there is DDOS protection, a Web Application Firewall, and other network level security mechanisms in place.
* Are encrypted while at rest and in transit to a provider-managed IBM Cloud Databases Elastic Search.
* Are securely replicated globally for high-availability.
* Are kept for 7 days before they are deleted.


