---

copyright:
  years: 2020, 2024
lastupdated: "2024-01-03"

keywords: HA for {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}}, DR for {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}}, high availability for {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}}, disaster recovery for {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}}, failover for {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}}, BC for {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}}, business continuity for {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}}, disaster recovery for {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}}

subcollection: security-compliance

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}


# Understanding business continuity and disaster recovery for {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}}
{: #bc-dr}

[Disaster recovery](#x2113280){: term} involves a set of policies, tools, and procedures for returning a system, an application, or an entire data center to full operation after a catastrophic interruption. It includes procedures for copying and storing an installed system's essential data in a secure location, and for recovering that data to restore normalcy of operation. {: shortdesc}

In case of failure, a failover design is established to keep your resources running without needing you to act. See [How {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} ensures high availability and disaster recovery](/docs/overview?topic=overview-zero-downtime#zero-downtime) to learn more about the high availability and disaster recovery standards in {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}. You can also learn more about [Service Level Agreements](/docs/overview?topic=overview-slas).

## Responsibilities
{: #bc-dr-responsibilities}

To find out more about responsibility ownership for using {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} products between {{site.data.keyword.IBM_notm}} and customer, see [Shared responsibilities for {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} products](/docs/overview?topic=overview-shared-responsibilities).

## Disaster recovery strategy
{: #bc-dr-strategy}

{{site.data.keyword.compliance_full}} is a highly available, regional service that runs in the Dallas (`us-south`), Frankfurt (`eu-de`), Madrid (`eu-es`), and Toronto (`ca-tor`) regions. In each supported region, {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}} exists in multiple availability zones with no single point of failure. The configuration data that is associated with your instance of {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}} is backed up across regions. Results that are generated by scheduled scans are saved in the Cloud Object Storage instance that was provided when {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}} was provisioned and configured in your account.  

Because {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}} is a regional service, cross-regional failover and cross-regional disaster recovery are not automatic. If all of the availability zones in a region fail, {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}} becomes unavailable in that location. Depending on the configuration of your Cloud Object Storage instance, when the region is available again data and traffic is automatically restored without any required action.
{: important}

For more information about configuring Cloud Object Storage, including how to make sure the Cloud Object Storage buckets are highly available, see [Getting started with IBM Cloud Object Storage](/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-getting-started-cloud-object-storage).

{{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} has [business continuity](#x3026801){: term} plans in place to provide for the recovery of services within hours if a disaster occurs. You are responsible for your data backup and associated recovery of your content.

{{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}} provides mechanisms to protect your data and restore service functions. Business continuity plans are in place to achieve targeted [recovery point objective](#x3429911){: term} (RPO) and [recovery time objective](#x3167918){: term} (RTO) for the service. The following table outlines the targets for {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}}.

| Disaster recovery objective | Target value |
| --------------------------- | ------------ |
| RPO | 12 hours |
| RTO | 4 hours |
{: caption="Table 1. RPO and RTO for {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}}" caption-side="bottom"}

If you require continuous scans while the primary region is unavailable, you can provision a new instance of {{site.data.keyword.compliance_short}} by using a new Cloud Object Storage bucket. However, you cannot access previous scan result data until the regional service is restored.
{: tip}
